docs/index.md, before:

---
layout: home
---

# HuBMAP Software Documentation

HuBMAP offers several software and tool components for programatic access to [HuBMAP data and metadata](/metadata).  This site contains information about this software and tools, more information is available at the [HuBMAP Consortium Site](https://hubmapconsortium.org) or the [HuBMAP Data Portal](https://portal.hubmapconsortium.org)

For an overview of HuBMAP data visit the [Data Overview](/data-sankey/index.html) page.

### APIs
There are several APIs which can be used to search and retrieve information about HuBMAP data.  All are linked below in the architecture diagram and on the [API Index](/apis).

### SDK
The [HuBMAP SDK](/sdk/hubmapsdk.html) is a Python library to interface with the [Entity API](https://smart-api.info/ui/0065e419668f3336a40d1f5ab89c6ba3).

### HuBMAP Command Line Transfer Tool
The [HuBMAP CLT](/clt/index.html) is a stand alone command line tool that enables bulk download of HuBMAP data by specifying the data to be downloaded in a manifest file.

<h3 id="the-hubmap-microservice-architecture" style="margin-bottom: -30px;">The HuBMAP Microservice Architecture</h3>
<iframe src="/hubmap-services-arch.html" name="HuBMAP Services Architecture" width="1000" height="675" style="border:0px; margin-left: -23px;"></iframe>

Commit message:

added a few links to the data submission guide

docs/index.md, after:

---
layout: home
---
# HuBMAP Data Submission

To submit data to HuBMAP please review the [HuBMAP Data Submission Guide](/data-submission/)

# HuBMAP Software Documentation

HuBMAP offers several software and tool components for programatic access to [HuBMAP data and metadata](/metadata).  This site contains information about this software and tools, more information is available at the [HuBMAP Consortium Site](https://hubmapconsortium.org) or the [HuBMAP Data Portal](https://portal.hubmapconsortium.org)

For an overview of HuBMAP data visit the [Data Overview](/data-sankey/index.html) page.

### APIs
There are several APIs which can be used to search and retrieve information about HuBMAP data.  All are linked below in the architecture diagram and on the [API Index](/apis).

### SDK
The [HuBMAP SDK](/sdk/hubmapsdk.html) is a Python library to interface with the [Entity API](https://smart-api.info/ui/0065e419668f3336a40d1f5ab89c6ba3).

### HuBMAP Command Line Transfer Tool
The [HuBMAP CLT](/clt/index.html) is a stand alone command line tool that enables bulk download of HuBMAP data by specifying the data to be downloaded in a manifest file.

<h3 id="the-hubmap-microservice-architecture" style="margin-bottom: -30px;">The HuBMAP Microservice Architecture</h3>
<iframe src="/hubmap-services-arch.html" name="HuBMAP Services Architecture" width="1000" height="675" style="border:0px; margin-left: -23px;"></iframe>
